***The Sr isotopic evolution of the depleted mantle (revisited)***

Both the research topics described above involve interpreting deviations in measured Sr isotopic compositions with respect to the depleted mantle. Implicit in this is the idea that there exists a "baseline" depleted mantle isotopic composition with which to compare the e.g. island arc or ophiolite data. 

But unlike for the Nd isotope system (e.g., [Vervoort & Blichert-Toft, 1999](https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0016703798002749?casa_token=FTZNyGrb12IAAAAA:3l8NXcIt0r-7zghDPk1JZBwSnklceDZjnAySZ7hVJE2EJnVCVN1BvYX_3vDlOoKKsbTD5PiWseVc)), there is no "evolution curve" for depleted mantle <sup>87</sup>Sr/<sup>86</sup>Sr that is based on the rock record. Attempts to build such a curve were undertaken several decades ago, but all the compiled <sup>87</sup>Sr/<sup>86</sup>Sr data (mostly from island arc magmatic rocks) were too high - elevated compared to what you'd expect for Sr isotopes in mantle-derived rocks, given they should correlate with <sup>143</sup>Nd/<sup>144</sup>Nd. The consensus was that the Rb-Sr system is too easily disturbed for Proterozoic mantle-derived rocks to preserve primary <sup>87</sup>Sr/<sup>86</sup>Sr signatures. Lacking a rock-based Sr isotope depleted mantle evolution curve, people have modeled mantle <sup>87</sup>Sr/<sup>86</sup>Sr through time, using reasonable assumptions about depletion events and continental growth in the Archean coupled with the Rb/Sr of Earth's silicate reservoirs and the well-constrained <sup>87</sup>Rb-<sup>87</sup>Sr decay constant. 

The resulting curves are extremely useful, but it is interesting to consider whether the rock record is consistent with what has been modeled. Post-eruptive weathering and alteration in very ancient rocks is certainly a complication, but in light of our recent finding that island arc rocks have exhibited elevated <sup>87</sup>Sr/<sup>86</sup>Sr for the last two billion years, it is also probably inherently problematic to use island arc rocks for the purpose of building a mantle evolution curve, even if they are technically derived from the depleted mantle. This is inconvenient, since the preservation potential of subduction-related magmatic rocks is a lot higher than it is for MORB! 

I am attempting to constrain depleted mantle <sup>87</sup>Sr/<sup>86</sup>Sr evolution by compiling gabbros and peridotite from ophiolites, which are our best analogs of unaltered MORB. I am searching for samples that are (1) purely upper mantle-derived (minimal subduction influence) and (2) preserve their primary values. Subsequent comparison to modeled isotope evolution curves should provoke some thought about longterm isotopic heterogeneity in the mantle and depletion dynamics.