***Sr isotopes in island arcs through Earth history***

The Sr isotopic ratio of magmatic rocks forming at island arcs today are elevated (<sup>87</sup>Sr/<sup>86</sup>Sr = ca. 0.7035) with respect to modern mid-ocean ridge basalt (<sup>87</sup>Sr/<sup>86</sup>Sr = ca. 0.7028), despite their nominal derivation from the same depleted upper mantle source. The generally accepted explanation for the "extra" radiogenic Sr in modern island arcs is the addition of radiogenic, seawater-derived Sr to the subarc mantle by way of the subducting, seawater-altered slab. Because this exchange between the hydrosphere and Earth's interior is critical for understanding global element cycling and continental crust growth, we wanted to know whether slab-related enrichment is a long-lived feature of island arc geochemistry.

We compiled Sr isotope data from island arc magmatic rocks of all ages, and filtered for unaltered, crustally uncontaminated samples. The temporal variation in island arc Sr isotopes shows some intriguing similarities to (1) the Sr isotopic evolution of seawater through time and (2) the record of Sr concentration in seawater through time. We interpret this apparent arc-seawater connectivity as evidence that the transfer of Sr from ocean, to seafloor, to mantle, to island arc magmas has been ongoing since the Paleoproterozoic. If this interpretation is correct, it implies that hydrothermal alteration and subduction have operated on very long timescales.

The paper can be read here - [Temporal covariation of island arc Sr isotopes and seawater chemistry over the past 2 billion years](https://www.pnas.org/doi/10.1073/pnas.2401832121). Caltech's science communication article highlighting the work can be read [here](https://www.caltech.edu/about/news/ancient-connections-between-ocean-chemistry-and-volcanic-rocks).

<!-- Put your address / P.O. box / other info right below your picture. You can also disable any these elements by editing `profile` property of the YAML header of your `_pages/about.md`. Edit `_bibliography/papers.bib` and Jekyll will render your [publications page](/al-folio/publications/) automatically.

Link to your social media connections, too. This theme is set up to use [Font Awesome icons](https://fontawesome.com/) and [Academicons](https://jpswalsh.github.io/academicons/), like the ones below. Add your Facebook, Twitter, LinkedIn, Google Scholar, or just disable all of them. -->
