***Ancient hydrothermal alteration in Paleoproterozoic ophiolites***

Ophiolites are fragments of ancient altered oceanic crust, and their geochemistry can provide insights into the seawater-seafloor chemical and isotopic exchange that occurs at spreading centers during oceanic crust formation. With enough data spanning enough Earth history, the ophiolite record can be used to probe longterm temporal variations in hydrothermal alteration regimes and altering fluid chemistry at spreading centers like today's mid-ocean ridges. 

It's been noted that some Cretaceous and Ordovician ophiolites exhibit larger shifts towards seawater Sr isotope values as compared to modern altered oceanic crust, perhaps indicating more vigorous seawater-seafloor isotopic exchange during these periods of the Phanerozoic. This has been attributed to different seawater chemistry and/or warmer ocean temperatures compared to today. Compared to the Phanerozoic, much less is known about Precambrian seawater chemistry and hydrothermal alteration. Motivated by the idea that geochemical patterns through ophiolite profiles can elucidate some aspects of these dynamics, we are measuring Sr isotopes through the basalt, sheeted dike, and gabbro sections of two Paleoproterozoic ophiolites.

These Paleoproterozoic ophiolites also serve as potential tool to answer the longstanding questions surrounding the oxygen isotopic composition of the Precambrian ocean. Analyses of Proterozoic sedimentary rocks consistently yield negative oxygen isotope values. If these are primary signatures, it suggests either that surface temperatures were significantly warmer or that oceans were depleted in <sup>18</sup>O on the Proterozoic Earth. Either of these possibilities have significant implications for how we conceptualize climate, weathering, and mass and heat exchange in the Precambrian. In contrast, O isotopes from the igneous rock record suggest seawater has maintained its zero permille δ<sup>18</sup>O signature on long timescales, presumably buffered by hydrothermal alteration at spreading centers. Robust datasets of O isotopes through profiles of very old ophiolites might help resolve this discrepancy, but such datasets are currently sparse. To fill this gap, we are measuring O isotopes through the basalt, sheeted dike, and gabbro sections of two Paleoproterozoic ophiolites.

I've gained experience in field sampling and planning, sample processing, XRF and (LA-)ICPMS prep chemistry and analysis, and qualitative and quantitative petrography at Caltech. At UC Berkeley/LBNL I have worked for several months on acid digestion and column chromatography chemistry (Sr and Nd) in a clean lab, TIMS, and MC-ICPMS. Upcoming work will involve analysis with thermohydrochemical modeling tools and redox titration. 


