***Past projects***

 *Carbon in the mantle - undergraduate thesis (2019):* My senior thesis at the University of Rhode Island was advised by [Katie Kelley](https://scholar.google.com/citations?user=U1dR9LAAAAAJ&hl=en&oi=ao) and is titled *New constraints on mantle carbon content from variations in CO<sub>2</sub>/Ba ratios in undegassed mid-ocean ridge basalt*. I wafered undegassed olivine-hosted melt inclusions from the Easter Microplate and we analyzed them with FTIR and EMPA. That these OHMIs are carbon-undersaturated and thus undegassed is rare, and they presented an opportunity to directly measure CO<sub>2</sub> and evaluate whether the proxies commonly used to estimate primary CO<sub>2</sub> concentrations in degassed samples are robust and universal. Specifically, the CO<sub>2</sub>/Ba ratio is assumed to be constant in MORB, so people often use barium concentrations to calculate CO<sub>2</sub> concentrations, which are then extrapolated to constrain global mantle carbon. This CO<sub>2</sub>/Ba constancy assumption had only been verified by a few sample suites, though, so our aim here was to add a robust dataset from a new location to the existing literature. I was awarded an undergraduate research grant from URI for this work. 

 *Volcanic polyphosphate - qualifying exam project (2021):* A long-standing question surrounding the origin of life on Earth concerns the source of bioavailable phosphates on a prebiotic planet – most inorganic phosphorus is locked up in insoluble apatite minerals, and the ways protocells might have accessed phosphates before life was widespread is not known. Advised by [Woody Fischer](https://scholar.google.com/citations?user=6laH_QsAAAAJ&hl=en&oi=ao) and motivated by the observation that [gases from volcanic fumaroles contain polyphosphate](https://www.nature.com/articles/352516a0), I carried out some calculations to assess whether volcanic polyphosphate production on the modern Earth is substantial enough to warrant serious consideration that early Earth volcanoes were a significant source of bioavailable phosphate for the early biosphere. This work involved thermodynamic modeling, a data compilation, and field sampling at active fumaroles in Yellowstone National Park.

 *Quantifying the pace of an extinction event preserved in Petrified Forest National Park (2017):* The ca. 215 Ma Adamanian-Revueltian faunal turnover is remarkably preserved in Petrified Forest National Park (Arizona, USA). A [meteorite impact in Quebec, Canada](https://www.nasa.gov/image-article/manicouagan-crater/) has been causally linked to the extinction, but whether or not the pace of the event is consistent with a catastrophic impact was previously untested. As a field research assistant for Riley Hayes (now at UC Berkeley) who led the project, I spent twelve weeks in Petrified Forest relocating fossil localities with uniquely Adamanian or uniquely Revueltian taxa and measuring section in order to situate their stratigraphic positions within a [U-Pb dated stratigraphy](https://pubs.geoscienceworld.org/gsa/gsabulletin/article/123/11-12/2142/125581/High-precision-U-Pb-zircon-geochronology-of-the). Riley then took a Bayesian approach to quantifying the tempo of the faunal turnover. Our paper in *Geology* can be read [here](https://pubs.geoscienceworld.org/gsa/geology/article/48/4/318/579957/Modeling-the-dynamics-of-a-Late-Triassic.) This novel approach can be applied to other examples of other stratigraphically well-preserved extinction events.